Now that we have covered a few other topics, I would like to revisit slack.
You might consider scheduling no work on the last day
or two of your sprint iteration.
This could give you slack, but would be a bit wasteful if you have no issues,
or you could pull forward a backlog item slated for the next sprint.
In fact,
it never hurts to have your eye on a couple of backlog items to
pull forward in case you have some slack to fill.
Schedule work in each sprint that is not time critical that could,
in the event of an unforeseen issues,
be repurposed to act as slack to solve the problem.
What would these non-time critical items be?
Well, reducing technical debt.
So instead of doing that, you could work on the issues at hand,
or they may be research or spike activities.
These are typically not critical,
and that allocated time could be put towards your issues as well.
If you are all out of slack, the team may consider working some extra hours.
I would be careful with this one.
If you burn people out, productivity that is, your velocity would go down.
But if the team votes to work a few more hours, well, let them.
But if they do do this too much, it might provide a false positive,
portraying a higher velocity than really exists,
and that's because the team will not always work
those extra hours in the long run,
and it'll appear as if your velocity is sagging because you're not working those extra hours.